# Enumerate Applications

> Find out which particular applications are hosted on a web server.

> It is not uncommon to have multiple web sites or applications whose FQDN resolve to the same IP address. The problem is that given an IP address, accessing by IP on port 80 or 443 reports "No web server", but could hide a number of web applications associated with the DNS.

> Other issues are represented by web applications published at non-obvious URLs (xx:80/strange-url) which are not referenced anywhere.

### Different Base URL

Web applications can start at / or at /urlX. Techniques to discover /urlX are:
* If the web server is mis-configured and allows directory browsing it may be possible to spot these applications.

* These applications may be referenced by other web pages and can be spidered by crawlers. Use _site:_ operator and examine the results.

* Make use of vulnerability scanners or brute-forcing automated tools.

_____

### Non-standar Ports

Web applications may be associated with arbitrary ports (non 80 or 443). A port scanner like nmap is capable of performing service recognition with the _-sV_ flag.

_____

### Virtual Hosts

DNS allows a single IP addres to be associated with one or more symbolic names (1-to-N relationship). It is not necessary that all the names belong to the same DNS domain.

Techniques to identify DNS names associated to a given IP address:

##### DNS Zone Transfers

```bash
#1. Identify name server for the domain:
host -t ns www.xxx.com

#2. Try zone transfer from its name servers:
host -l www.xxx.com ns1.xxx.com
```

##### DNS Inverse Queries

This process relies on inverse (PTR) DNS records. Setting the record type to PTR on the given IP address may get back a DNS name entry.

```bash
nslookup
set q=ptr
server $ns
$ipaddress
```

##### Reverse-IP Services

Similar to DNS inverse queries but on a web-based application instead of a name server. Some services are:

* Bing, by syntax: ip:x.x.x.x
* Webhosting Info, by syntax: http://whois.webhosting.info/x.x.x.x
* DNSStuff
